today we're going to talk about ion
it's this decentralized identifier
implementation
runs on bitcoin but importantly for this
uh discussion in this group is the fact
that within
uh the implementation the file transfer
replication protocol it relies on is
ipfs
um so we'll talk a little bit about that
how that works as well as identity and
iron in general
um maybe you want to get involved so
first question
to answer is what is identity right so
it's sort of a notoriously difficult
thing to define but
i want to give a definition that i think
should cover it all because it's because
it's everything
um identities everything around you
right like literally
everything other than money uh probably
you could you could argue
uh in the sense that it's everything you
say do you think experience
express your political views your app
data like anything in the world that
could define you as a person
is your identity so
it's really really important that we
create a system
that is both secure and decentralized
because you know this is really
like the story of your life right um so
why is identity a must-win fight i would
argue it is a must-win fight
uh because if you define identity as the
thing that grounds
all of these activities you know your
social media you know your
communications with others
um all the stuff you type into to the
digital sphere which is like
you know my grocery lists my thoughts
and feelings and
documents like this is incredibly
sensitive data and if we don't win
the fight of identity the thing that
gates access to that data by outside
parties and gives them ability to read
it or not
um i think we you know we're in for like
maybe not such a good feature
so explaining the root of identity right
what we're talking about today ion is
primarily the bottom of this tree it's
the the foundation of identity
not identity data so one thing to really
keep
an understanding of in your mind is that
identifiers are very different than
identity right identity's the sum total
of you identifiers are references
to all or part of you um and so
when we talk about what is an identifier
you all use them
you know email addresses usernames these
are all identifiers
but they're centralized so people can
take them from you right if they want to
if you
you're acting naughty on a social media
website or
naughty as they think you're acting
they'll take your account away you lose
all your connections
all the content that you had is gone
right it's not really yours they're
leasing it to you
same thing with email addresses you can
be erased you can be de-personed
now your identity data is all the stuff
that actually defines you your
identifier are just a reference point
so an identifier doesn't really tell a
whole lot right i mean
maybe if you put your name as your email
address as most people do it obviously
tells something
but a big random identifier doesn't
actually tell you about what it
identifies it could identify a person
it could identify machines so without
identity data identifiers are just
pseudo-anonymous ids backed by strong
cryptography and we'll talk a little bit
about what
decentralized vampires specifically as a
type of idr
decentralized identifiers is a w3c
emerging standard that just went into
candidate
recommendation just two weeks ago
and it's going to be an international
standard it essentially sets forth a
standard for
a uri scheme and a data model
for the expression of keys and endpoints
in relation to an identifier and what
ion is
is a formulation of dids it's a
implementation of those standards
over on the right you'll see you know
one identifier an ion
identifier it's not friendly looking
it's not like an email address
it's a 32-bit string a 32-byte string
and it maps to this did document which
is a docu a json document that contains
some public keys that you might
associate with your identifier
and some service endpoints where people
might be able to go find identity data
and those are really the two most
important things that link to a d i d
uh the big difference here obviously is
cryptographically secure and these these
ids are yours they can't be taken from
you they have all the value of bitcoin
and all those
those attributes in the sense that you
know it's as hard to
steal someone's well-secured bitcoin
keys or as it is
their identity as it is the bitcoin keys
so
let's talk about ion uh what is it it's
an open public permission this layer two
a network that runs on top of bitcoin
and enables
one implementation of decentralized
identifiers at pretty pretty awesome
scale
so doesn't rely on any of the things you
may see in other protocols there are an
essential authorities you know
strange coming from microsoft obviously
but there's no signatories there's no
cabal
it's not libra there's no there's no ceo
right just like the ceo of bitcoin has
not
you know been called in front of
congress you're not going to find the
ceo of ion
there soon either
so how does it work right
this will get in a little bit about ipfs
so in ion node anyone can run them
basically inside of an ion node resides
bitcoin
um some processing logic module and
for this group an ipfs node every single
ion node runs
an ipfs node we use go ipfs and
what that actually allows for is all the
nodes to ensure that they circulate
all the specific data that they know
they should have and how do they know
they should have the data
well they're watching bitcoin for
embedded ipfs cids that are
placed into transactions and if those
transactions you know pass a certain set
of deterministic rules
they ingest the cid and they start
looking for
that data and essentially the system is
a really really big crdt
um it's basically an authenticated crdt
that uses bitcoin as clock
and as it pulls all the data in from all
the ipfs cids
the anchored batches of did operations
it compiles them
in a deterministic manner that is not
subjective in any way
it's formally and mathematically
provable and there
is no one that can stand in between you
and that consensus because the consensus
is is purely math so so that's kind of
the the big role ipfs plays and it's
interesting in the sense that
ion nodes do not speak to each other
other than through ipfs
they they watch each other's
transactions in bitcoin they communicate
over the ips protocol to make sure that
they
uh circulate and replicate uh the
mirrored set of
of data that makes up ion so what does
ion deliver
well like i said operates at massive
scale you know tens of thousands or tens
of thousands of operations per second
it's really efficient people say you
know they ask all the time especially
folks that aren't really familiar with
these sorts of technologies internally
well but bitcoin's so expensive it's
just so expensive for transactions
well maybe right i mean if you were to
write cap pictures into bitcoin you got
to really care about that cat picture
for five dollars a pot
but if you're writing you know say 10
000 did operations that it can be
embedded through one bitcoin transaction
even if the price of bitcoin went to 100
per transaction and it's one
cent per operation and an operation
could you know be grounding the id of
you know jeff bezos's id do you think
he's willing to pay a penny
i do i mean they they'll charge you uh
you know
a dollar when you switch out your sim
card right it's all kind of bundled up
in your contract
so for switching out a single sim every
few years when you get a new phone you
could pay for all your
deops probably for years at a time
so we think it's pretty good deal ion
also includes a light node configuration
so that you only need to actually have
on hand at any moment as a light node
about five percent of the total data set
in the world
to give you a picture of how much data
that would be for under two terabytes of
storage
um you could uh anchor 50 billion you
could have 50 billion active dids in the
pki system so basically onboarding the
entire planet to ion
we could we could spin that at about 1.8
terabytes which is
pretty good um decentralized registry so
ion
unlike some other methods that are
completely where there's no index right
some other methods are
essentially like you can call in to some
specific prover module and figure out
your ids keys and endpoints if you know
the id but you can't see all the id
strings you can't see like
you know id one two three four five six
all the other ones right
uh ion is specifically enabling this
um through a decentralized index so
every id that's anchored in ion you
could at least know
uh its id and its keys and its endpoints
now you don't know who it is so it's not
giving you a huge
you know vector in terms of like actual
identity data
but there's some really cool things you
can do with that one is
uh you can type ids so i could create
ids that have certain types that are
you know digital things they're you know
types that
span from people to machines all sorts
of things and then you could
basically parse the global substrate of
ids and
you know get whatever batch of those ids
of whatever type you want
and create your own registry for those
things we'll touch on that a little bit
inside
so a little road map uh we talked about
you know how ions getting to v1
it's been a while um we spent about a
year just kind of thinking about how
best to approach the space
did some just conceptual work uh in 2019
we had a draft of the underlying
protocol citri which
is blockchain agnostic there's people
running it on ethereum as elements and
others that's actually just been
standardized by diff
um it is now an official diff ratified
standard
we got a beta running of ion the
specific implementation of side tree
anchored in bitcoin in 2020 and we ran
that beta for
about the duration of 2020 and now
in approximately don't hold me to it but
i think thursday
um we are going to v1 production um
microsoft ga with our node and we can't
speak for anyone else because obviously
the protocol doesn't just hinge on us at
all
um but we we're confident the spec is in
good shape the underlying protocol has
been standardized
and it's going to be rolled out just
like any other production
service for us anyway so so more
information will be coming to you
in the coming days and quarter quarter 4
you know we want to integrate it
certainly in all of our identity
products
uh as a company um you'll see auth
modules coming out people being able to
log in with dids and all sorts of things
that we think are just really cool
and enabling for the community the
decentralized community in general
so what's next um after dids there's
another place that ipfs can play a
really really big role and i think some
other folks you know in
the conversations to come will touch on
this and the next thing is personal data
stores
so you know what's an id worth if you
can't connect to some data
and maybe ask for some stuff of
someone's to learn about them or
something they want you to hear about
the concept here is that in those
service endpoints that you can associate
with your ids
you might want like a personal data
store endpoint where you can put some
public data maybe you can put some
encrypted data and
you know maybe data that's encrypted for
multiple parties
a whole mix of types of data and for
public data you know it might be
something like blue sky like maybe your
tweets live in your
your your personal data store so that if
i wanted to go get the tweet of say bob
you know his list of latest tweets
i would look as did up i would find his
service endpoint and i would go to a
standardized personal data store
and ask for that type of object the
ceramic folks are on later they've done
a really good job of this public data
piece especially
and if i have that i can i can start
building decentralized applications
because i can actually
go and get the data in a known universal
way from my peers
and so there's a whole lot of power in
that and that's that's i'd actually
argue that's the
the most powerful thing about
decentralized identities when you pair
these data stores
so we believe that dids really are the
dap
platform there's no decentralized
identity itself
was always the platform i just think
people are waking up to this
now why do i need signal and telegram
when i have dids with keys
and standardized personal data storing
points i have an implicit
universal worldwide encrypted messaging
service that's a standard
it's a little bit better i'd love to
deprecate those companies in fact that's
probably what we're going to try and do
social media why do i need people
telling me that i'm kicked off their
platform when i have my own did and
that's what people follow
and i don't need them in the middle and
they're irrelevant
what what about the gig economy you know
if i'm in austin texas and they say
well you can't uh operate here uber well
what if the way that drivers and
passengers start talking to each other
through dids and personal data stores
it makes the interdiction barrier down
to the person and that's exactly where
it should be
so that they don't have as easy a time
inflicting
roadblocks on people trying to exchange
and buying and selling of activities
so same thing about content registries
the apple app store really what is a
registry other than
identifiers linking to things right we
own npm um
microsoft and you know heaven forbid
something happened to that sql database
right that connects the world's code to
identifiers that you type into your
package.json
we think there could be a better world
we think that maybe you have dids that
stand for your packages
and you crawl ion and find them all and
you can have like a global registry of
code that can't be you know hurt by
anyone even us
you know the owners of npm so so
maybe i'm just going to pause it to you
that could it be that decentralization
is actually a platform that people
haven't been enamored with because it's
not as sexy it doesn't make you money
you can't ico it you can't coin it
you know it doesn't just turn billions
in your pocket overnight but it is real
it's serious and some of the largest
companies in the world are recognizing
the value of it for their own reasons
and i think you should maybe look into
it too